Add data visualization (#40)
JuliaDataScience/JuliaDataScience: contents/dataVis.md

# Data Visualisation {#sec:dataVis}

Data visualisation it is a vital part of almost any data analysis process.

> Here, in this chapter we will consider several libraries that can be used in Julia, namely Plots, Makie and AlbegraOfGraphics specially usefull for tabular data. 

Author: ```suggestion
Here, in this chapter, we will consider several libraries that can be used in Julia, namely Plots, Makie and AlgebraOfGraphics.
The latter is especially useful for tabular data. 
```

- specific measures with the Plots.PlotMeasures submodule (additionally a footnote to say that we have it in StatsPlots.PlotMeasures also)
- adding subplots incremententally. Define p1, p2, p3; then do a plot(p1, p2, p3; layout=l)

### Animations {#sec:animations}
Doing an animation with Plots is quite easy. 

### Themes {#sec:themes}

### Other backends {#sec:backends}
Plotly, PGFPlotsX, PyPlot?

## StatsPlots.jl {#sec:statsplots}

1. A brief intro and show that is is really just "syntactic sugar" for Plots.jl. Also note that works on all plots.jl stuff:

- Backends
- Attributes
- Colours
- Layouts
- Animations
- Themes
2. Works on Types of Distributions and DataFrames, but we will only focus on DataFrames

3. the @df macro and the Symbols (:col1, :col2) instead of other input data (vectors, arrays, tuples etc.)

4. Recipes (I would cover almost all of them, except for andrewsplot MDS plot, Dendograms, QQ-Plot etc., since they are specific for modeling or simulation):

- histogram, histogram2d and ea_histogram
- groupedhist and groupedbar
- boxplot
- dotplot
- violin
- marginalhist, marginalkde and marginalscatter
- corrplot and cornerplot

## Makie.jl {#sec:makie}

> (WIP) ideas for a better openinig line? 

Author: We could say that we think it is the prettiest plotting library (currently) in Julia?

[Makie](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/index.html#Welcome-to-Makie!) is a high-performance, extendable, and multi-platform plotting ecosystem for the Julia programming language.

> Makie is Makie's frontend package that defines all plotting functions.

Author: ```suggestion
`Makie.jl` is Makie's frontend package that defines all plotting functions.
```

> It is reexported by every backend, so you don't have to specifically install or import it.

Author: ```suggestion
It is reexported by every backend, meaning that you don't have to explicitly install or import it.
```

```

```jl
s = """
    scatterlines(1:10, 1:10)
    filename = "firstplot" # hide 
    Options(current_figure(); filename, caption="First plot", label="firstplot") # hide
    """
sco(s)
```

The previous plot is the default output, which for some probably is not ideal, plus some 
axis names and labels could be useful. 

Also note that every plotting function like `scatterlines` creates and returns a new `Figure`, `Axis` 
and `plot` object in a collection called `FigureAxisPlot`, these are known as the 
`non-mutating` methods. On the other hand, the `mutating` methods (e.g. `scatterlines!`, note the `!`)
just returns a plot object which can be appended into a given `axis`  or the `current_figure()`.

The next question that one might have is, how do I change the color or the marker type? 
Well, this is done via `attributes`, our next section. 

### Attributes

A custom plot can be done via `attributes` which can be set through keyword arguments. 
A list of `attributes` for every plotting object can be view as follows, 

```jl
s = """
    fig, ax, pltobj = scatterlines(1:10, 1:10)
    pltobj.attributes
    """
sco(s)
```
or as a `Dict` calling `pltobject.attributes.attributes`. 

> Asking for help in the `repl` as `?lines` or `help(lines)` for any given plotting 

Author: yes, nice to mention here

```jl
s = """
    set_theme!(resolution = (600,400), backgroundcolor = (:orange, 0.5), 
        fontsize = 16, font = "sans",
        Axis = (backgroundcolor = :white, xgridstyle=:dash, ygridstyle=:dash),
        Legend = (bgcolor = (:red,0.2), framecolor = :dodgerblue)
        )

    lines(1:10, (1:10).^2, label = "x²", linewidth = 2, linestyle = nothing,
        axis = (; xlabel = "x", title = "title"))
    scatterlines!(1:10, (10:-1:1).^2, label = "Reverse(x)²")
    axislegend("legend", position = :ct)
    current_figure()
    set_theme!() # in order to go back to the default settings. 
    filename = "setTheme" # hide 
    Options(current_figure(); filename, caption="set theme", label="setTheme") # hide
    """
sco(s)
```

For more on `themes` please go to section xxx (Refs)

Before moving on into the next section, it's worthwhile to see an example 
where an `array` of attributes are passed at once to a plotting function. 
For this example we will use the `scatter` plotting function to do a bubble plot. 

```jl
s = """
    let
        Random.seed!(123)
        n = 100
        fig, ax, pltobj = CairoMakie.scatter(randn(n), randn(n), color = randn(n), 

>             label = "Bubbles",colormap = :plasma, markersize = 25*rand(n), 

Author: ```suggestion
            label = "Bubbles", colormap = :plasma, markersize = 25*rand(n), 
```

>             figure = (; resolution = (550,400)), axis = (; aspect= DataAspect()))

Author: ```suggestion
            figure = (; resolution = (550,400)), axis = (; aspect = DataAspect()))
```
The named tuples do not adhere to the code style blue (https://github.com/invenia/BlueStyle#namedtuples), **but we can fix that later** :+1:.

        limits!(-3, 3, -3, 3)
        Legend(fig[1,2], ax, valign = :top)
        Colorbar(fig[1,2], pltobj, height = Relative(3/4))
        fig
        Options(current_figure(); filename ="bubbleplot", caption="Bubble plot", label="bubbleplot") # hide 
    end
    """
sco(s)
```

> Where we have decomposed the tuple `FigureAxisPlot` into `fig, ax, pltobj`, in order to 

Author: I think it's best if we, in the Markdown, stick to one sentence per line. That way, the diff remains cleanest. Otherwise, rewrites will cause a big mess. But, I'm open to discussion about this and also this doesn't have to be fixed now.

be able to add a `Legend` and `Colorbar` outside of the plot object. We will discuss 
this, `layouts`,  in more detail in the [Layouts] section.

Well, we have done some basic but still interesting examples to show
how to use `Makie` and by now you might be wondering, what else can 
we do? What are all the possible plotting functions available in `Makie`?
To answer this question a `cheat sheet` is shown in [@fig:cheat_sheet_cairomakie]. These work

> specially well with `CairoMakie`. 

Author: ```suggestion
especially well with `CairoMakie`. 
```

![Plotting functions: Cheat Sheet. Output given by Cairomakie.](images/makiePlottingFunctionsHide.png){#fig:cheat_sheet_cairomakie}

> For completeness in [@fig:cheat_sheet_glmakie] we 

Author: ```suggestion
For completeness, in [@fig:cheat_sheet_glmakie] we 
```
Or, did you mean "For completeness in [@fig:cheat_sheet_glmakie], we show [...]". I'm not sure.

show the corresponding ones for `GLMakie`, mostly 3D plots which are highly
supported in this backend. Those will be explained in detail in section [GLMakie].

![Plotting functions: Cheat Sheet. Output given by GLMakie.](images/GLMakiePlottingFunctionsHide.png){#fig:cheat_sheet_glmakie}

Now, that we have an idea of all the things we can do, let's go back and 
continue with the basics. It's time to learn how to change the general 

> appereance of our plots. 

Author: ```suggestion
appearance of our plots. 
```

### Themes {#sec:themes}

There are several ways to affect the general appeareance of your plots. Either, you
could use a [predifined theme](http://makie.juliaplots.org/stable/predefined_themes.html)
doing for example `with_theme(your_plot_function, theme_dark())`, 
build your own with `Theme(kwargs)`, or even update the one that is active with `update_theme!(kwargs)`. 

You can also do `set_theme!(theme; kwargs...)` to change the current default theme to `theme` 
and override or add attributes given by `kwargs`. If you do this and want to reset all
previous setting just do `set_theme!()`. See it in action in the following examples. 

```jl
@sc demo_themes()
```

```jl
s = """
    filenames = ["theme_dark()", "theme_black()", "theme_ggplot2()", # hide 
        "theme_minimal()", "theme_light()"] # hide 
    objects = [# hide
        with_theme(demo_themes, theme_dark())
        with_theme(demo_themes, theme_black())
        with_theme(demo_themes, theme_ggplot2())
        with_theme(demo_themes, theme_minimal())
        with_theme(demo_themes, theme_light())
    ]# hide 

>     Options.(objects, filenames) # hide 

Author: Nice! You've read the documentation of Books.jl well!
